---
layout: page
title: Work
permalink: /work/
---

# This is the work page

Here's some of the things I'm working on now:

### Spot Squid - link screen shot blurb

Spot Squid is a software solution for tattoo artists to fill cancealtions easier
than ever before with less hassle.  This is a project that started based on some
of my own experiences as a tattoo client and feedback from different tattoo
aritsts I've received feedback from. Focusing more on the aspects of product and
customer development over just implementing technical features has been a great
learning experience. I've been writing more about my experiences so be sure to
checkout the posts tagged with SaaS if you'd like to know more.


### Screaming Recs - Recording clip and sms screen shots

The best thing I can say about this project is it's something that I feel is
very 'me'.  Odd, yet practical with a dash of weird.  This is something I made
purely because I wanted it to be a thing.  If you keep an eye out at the
conferences I attend, there's usually some scattered pins and stickers.  If
you'd like to see what it's all about _without_ racking up any Twilio charges on
my account, you can listen to the intro I had done by a professional voice over
artist.

### Engineering Mentor Agency of Learning

I've been volunteering as a mentor with an organization called The Agency of
Learning.  The groups goal is to help prepare developers early in their career
not only land their first gig, but thrive and excel.  One of the interesting
differences is we try to keep everything as close to what you'd experience at a
job as possible.  That include things like daily standups, grooming and triaging
issues, and pairing sessions.

I've really enjoyed mentoring newer develpopers and am thankful I can do my part
to help ensure a bright future for the ruby comminity.

### Consulting

I'm an solo Rails consultant and have been focsuing particularly on SaaS
projects with either Jumpstart Pro or Bullet Train. I currently do not have any
availability, but I'd love to hear how I might be able to help you in the future
so please email here: codes@codynorman.com

